Let's focus on adding some code to our start function now.
We're going to make sure that whenever we run the start function we attempt to start up the users file
that they provided with node number.
The idea here is that the file name that the user provides is going to be a javascript file that they
want to execute with no J.S..
So let's figure out how to take that file name and start it up somehow.
OK.
So we get started I can go back over to the.
No J.S. documentation on the left hand side.
I'm going to scroll until I find child processes.
Here it is right here the child processes module provides us with four different functions.
Technically a couple more than four but we're really going to focus on only four that allow us to start
up a second program from our node program.
Before different functions we're going to take a look at our exact exact file fork and spawn.
I want to tell you right away and very clearly that these four different functions are extremely similar
in nature.
They are all about allowing our no JSA program to start up some other program on a computer.
There are only a couple of very small configuration details between these four different functions.
We're going to mention them very briefly but they are kind of minor and kind of hard to understand.
So it will be kind of a brief explanation of what the differences are between these four the first function
that we're going to focus on and the one that we're going to use for our program is the spawn function
so going to click on child process not spawn so we can take a look at how to actually use this function.
Essentially we call spawn with some command to run on our computer command right here is essentially
going to be the command or the program that we want to run.
The second argument is optional.
It can be an array of strings that are the arguments we want to provide to that program right away without
thinking anything else about spawn.
I want you to imagine right now how we actually execute a node program in general on our computer.
Usually we do something like over to our terminal and then run node and then the file that we want to
run so in this case node is the command that we are executing an index.
J.S. is an argument to that command so if we want to make use of spawn to start up a program from inside
of our code we're going to call spawn with a string of node and a array of strings that has one string
inside of it and we'll be just the name of the file that we're trying to run.
Presumably the name of the file that the user gave to us.
There's one other thing you need to know about the spawn function.
Before we tried to test it out the third argument is an options object and it is completely optional
inside this options object if we decide to provide it.
We can pass in a FTD Io or standard Io property.
We can't click on options not standard to Io to see a little bit more so here's what's going on behind
the scenes when we create a child process from our program.
That child process might be emitting some logs like in other words it might have its own console log
statements or errors being thrown or whatever else by default.
When we use it respond to create a new process we don't really see any of that information coming back
to us so we can choose to provide this esti d Io option when we call spawn and we can pass it a string
of inherit if we pass in a string of Inherit.
That essentially means if that child process emits any log statements once again a console log or an
ear or whatever else take that information and pass it back to our program automatically and show it
inside of our programs console logs in council ears okay.
So let's try to call spawn.
I can go back over to my editor at the very top I'm going to require in just this bond function.
So notice I'm doing a little bit of destruction here and I'm gonna require that from child underscore
process once again.
Notice the kind of funny name of this library.
They chose to put an underscore in there which is extremely uncommon.
You're not going to see just about any other standard library modules with an underscore inside of it.
It just happens that whoever wrote this module decided to name it and that way okay.
So then down inside of our start function going to replace that console log with spawn the command we
want to run is node.
The only argument we want to provide is the name of the file that we want to execute.
So that's gonna be the name we just got right there.
So I'll provide an array with name inside of it.
And then the third argument is S T D Io inherits again.
That's gonna say that whenever we create this child process whatever logs errors or whatever else get
emitted take that information and pass it through to our programs process excuse me our programs console
log and errors and whatnot.
I'm gonna give you a better explanation of that by the way in just a moment.
So if that sounds kind of flaky it kind of is.
I just want to tell you why we're putting in that option very quickly and I'll give you a better diagram
to help you understand what it's really doing in just a moment.
Okay.
So now we need to actually test this out.
Does that test this out.
We need a kind of test file to run.
Because remember this is all about running some other file so inside of my project I can create a new
file called Test dot J.S. and inside of here I'm going to do a very simple console log of hi there well
then save this and I'll go back over to my terminal.
We're going to try to use our watch it command line tool to execute the test dot J.S. file.
So if everything works the way we expect it should run this file one time and we should see accounts
log of Hi there.
If we then make any changes to this file or add anything inside this project directory our program should
automatically re execute the test dot J.S. file.
So let's give it a shot.
I'm gonna go back over to my terminal and I'll run watch it test dot J.S. and then sure enough I see
Hi there.
And then notice that we are not being immediately kicked back to our terminal.
That's because our program like the actual watch it program is now watching this directory for changes
to any file.
So if we change anything inside there the test not just files should be automatically executed a second
time.
Let's test that out.
I'll go back to test J.S. and I'm gonna change the console log to say by there.
So now in theory once I save this file joke it art is going to see that change and call starts and then
inside of starts we're going to execute that file.
Once again I'll go back to test.
I'm gonna save it.
I'll go back over to my terminal and sure enough I see by there appear awesome.
So that is pretty much it.
That is like proof of concept that we can get this thing working.
There are still some odds and ends that we need to take care of in a couple different things I want
to explain.
But in general this is a proof of concept that we can get this program working correctly.
Let's take a pause right here.
Like I said a couple of different things I want to explain particularly around us four different functions
inside the child process library and also around this standard Io stuff as well so quick pause and I'll
see you in just a minute.